Bits AI - refresh and SRE docs (#29655)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/bits_ai/bits_ai_sre/_index.md

---
title: Get started with Bits AI SRE
---

## Overview

Bits AI SRE is an autonomous AI agent that investigates alerts and coordinates incident response. When a monitor triggers, Bits proactively generates multiple hypotheses, queries relevant telemetry, and reasons over the data to help on-call engineers quickly identify the root cause. If the alert escalates to an incident, Bits supports the response by managing stakeholder communications, surfacing relevant knowledge base content, highlighting related incidents, and accelerating the postmortem and incident follow-up process. By reducing manual effort, Bits ensures smoother and more efficient on-call operations.

> ## Get started with alert investigations

Reviewer: Right now we have
Bits SRE <- [Get started with alert investigations](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/janine.chan/docs-11057-bits-ai-sre/bits_ai/bits_ai_sre#get-started-with-alert-investigations) is here  
- Investigate alerts
- Coordinate incidents <- But [Get started with coordinating incidents](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/janine.chan/docs-11057-bits-ai-sre/bits_ai/bits_ai_sre/coordinate_incidents#get-started-with-coordinating-incidents) is here

What do we think?

> Bits helps automate alert investigations so you can triage issues faster and reduce manual troubleshooting. Here's how to get started:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Redundant on second read

### Enable Bits on monitors for automated investigations

There are two main ways to enable Bits for automated investigations: 

> - **Option 1: Use the Bits-Optimized Monitors list**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Option 1: Use the Bits-Enabled Monitors list**
```

>   - In Bits AI, go to the [**Monitor Management**][1] page. In the **Monitors** list, select one or more monitors, then click **Enable Bits AI**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In Bits AI, go to the [**Bits-Enabled Monitors**][1] page. 
  1. In the **Monitors** tab, select one or more monitors, then click **Enable Bits AI**.
```

Reviewer: Latest: <img width="701" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-05 at 8 26 23 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2691d20-9c64-43fb-964f-410e627ecfb5" />

- **Option 2: Add the Bits AI tag to a monitor**
  1. In the [Monitor List][2], select one or more monitors to edit.
     - To edit one monitor, click the monitor to open it, then click **Edit**.
     - To edit multiple monitors, select them, then click **Edit tags**.
  1. Add the `bitsai:enabled` tag to your selected monitors.

You can also add the tag to your desired monitors using the Datadog API or Terraform. 

> <div class="alert alert-info">Bits only supports metric (including anomaly, outlier, and integration), APM, and log monitors.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">Bits only supports metric, logs, APM, anomaly, forecast, integration, and outlier monitors for investigations at this time.</div>
```

### Configure where investigation results are sent

Bits can send investigation results to several destinations. By default, results appear in two places:
  - **Full investigation results** are available on the [Bits AI Investigations][3] page.
  - **A summary of the results** is available on the status page for the monitor.

> In your [monitor notification settings][8], if you already have `@slack`, `@oncall`, or `@case` configured, Bits automatically writes to those places. If not, you can add them as destinations for investigation results to appear:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you already have already configured `@slack`, `@oncall`, or `@case` [notifications in your monitor][8], Bits automatically writes to those places. If not, you can add them as destinations for investigation results to appear:
```

{{% collapse-content title="Slack" level="h5" expanded=false id="slack" %}}
1. Ensure the [Datadog Slack app][4] is installed in your workspace.
1. Go to [**Bits AI** > **Settings** > **Integrations**][5] and connect your Slack workspace.

> 1. Go to a monitor. Under **Configure notifications and automations**, add the `@slack-{channel-name}` handle to send results to Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to a monitor. Add the `@slack-{channel-name}` handle in the **Configure notifications and automations** section  to send results to Slack.
```

Author: I find it's easier to list things in the order users will see things - that is, they'll see the section name before they'll get the opportunity to add the handle. Is there a good reason to list these things in reverse order?

{{% /collapse-content %}}
{{% collapse-content title="On-Call" level="h5" expanded=false id="on-call" %}}

> If you have [Page notifications][6] configured in Datadog On-Call, you can see a summary of Bits' results on the On-Call page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the @oncall-{team} handle in the **Configure notifications and automations** section.
```

Author: Is it okay to remove the page notifications setting link here? I don't want people to be confused if the @oncall handle doesn't work.

{{% /collapse-content %}}
{{% collapse-content title="Case Management" level="h5" expanded=false id="case-management" %}}
Add the `@case-{project-name}` handle in the **Configure notifications and automations** section. 
{{% /collapse-content %}}

### Manually start an investigation

Alternatively, you can manually invoke Bits on an individual monitor event. 

<!-- TKTK CAN'T SEE BUTTON YET -->
- **Option 1: Monitor Status Page**

>   -  In the [Monitor List][2], on a monitor status page, on an alert event, click the **Investigate with Bits AI** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  On the monitor status page for a particular alert event, click the **Investigate with Bits AI** button.
```
